# Create a Daisi

A Daisi can be created from **any** Python code which is stored on Github.

So the first step is to make sure that your code is actually pushed to a Github repository.

You need to have an account and to be logged in the Daisi platform [app.daisi.io](https://app.daisi.io) to create a new Daisi. Sign up to create an account
or sign in.  

## From Python code to a deployed serveless function in one click

Let's start by creating a simple *Print Hello* daisi.  

The Python code would simply be a regular Python function:

```python

   def hello(name = "World"):

    return "Hello " + str(name)
```

Turning this code into a deployed serverless function only requires two steps:  

1. Step 1 : Push the code to a Github repository.
2. Step 2 : Register the Github repository in the Daisi platform.

Click on the **Create a new daisi** button, give the daisi a name (*Print Hello* for instance) and enter the address to the Github repository.

On the next screen, confirm the branch to use, the folder in the repository and the Python script containing the function. Then click on **Create**.

The Daisi platform will automatically parse the requirements, create a virtual environment and generate an
endpoint for every function in the code. When it says "Ready", your code is now deployed and a worker will be
available to run it whenever someone triggers its execution !

Open the card corresponding to the new *Print Hello* daisi and go to the
**How to** tab. Our code contains simply one function (`def hello()`), so only one endpoint has
been created (`hello`). In case that multiple functions are present in the main script,
there will be one endpoint per function.  

*Print Hello* can be called from various clients, including with a regular HTTP request (see the *CURL* tab).  
At the moment, the Python client pyDaisi is the most developed.  

The Python section of the **How to** tab features a snippet of code to call immediately the Daisi from a remote environment
with `pydaisi` (see [**Simple executions**](2.pydaisi_part1.md)). In this example, it should look like:

```python
import pydaisi as pyd
print_hello = pyd.Daisi(username/"Print Hello")
```

Go to **Settings** and click on the **Make public** button. Your "Print Hello" Daisi is now visible
by every Daisi user, they can open its card and call it with `pydaisi`.
Visibility settings are describe in [**Sharing Daisies - Teams**](4.sharing.md)

## Virtual environment creation

A virtual environment will be automatically created for your Daisi to run.
The venv will be populated with the required Python packages and dependencies. The Daisi
platform will create the virtual environment with [**Miniconda**](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) and then uses `pip` to install and manage Python packages.
If no *requirements.txt* file is available in the folder of the main script, the Daisi
platform will parse the main script and try to identify the required packages.

However, it is strongly recommended to include a *requirements.txt* file, and to specify
the version number of the packages if needed. You can generate a requirements file with

```bash
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

## Endpoints creation

Endpoints will be created for every function of the Python script that you have selected, i.e for
every `#!python def` statement:

```python
# An endpoint will be created automatically for my_func()
def my_func(*args):
    # do and return something
```

With the following exceptions:

* There is no function definition : if your code is simply a series of statements, without any function definition, the Daisi platform will not create any endpoint.
* No endpoints will be created for classes definition
* No endpoints will be created for classes methods
* No endpoints will be created for module privates (whith name starting with an `#!python _` or `#!python __`)

Think about how you want to design your endpoints and write functions accordingly so they deliver the most
value to your end users.

## Endpoints documentation

A documentation is generated automatically for each endpoint created. It is strongly recommended to
add docstrings to document the functions which will be the most important endpoints of your Daisi, describing
the input arguments and the returned objects. We encourage to follow the format below:  

```python
def my_func(name1, name2)
# Here below is the docstring:
'''
A short sentence describing the function purpose

Parameters:
- name1 (type) : description
- name2 (type) : description

Return:
- object type : description
'''
```

## Adding a Readme (`DAISI.md`)

The **Readme** tab of the daisi page will display the content of the `DAISI.md` from your Github repository.
It will try to default to `README.md` if `DAISI.md` is not present.

It is a good practice to include a `DAISI.md` file which explains what your Daisi does, and write a self-contained
example that a user could copy to have an immediate overview of how your Daisi works. 
Include also any useful reference to the code, including source papers, and give appropriate credits.
Check the `Examples` section in the Daisi platform for examples of `DAISI.md`.

## Updating the metadata

In the Settings tab, you can add the following information to make your Daisi easily discoverable in the platform:

* tags: you can type in any relevant tag for your Daisi. Try to reuse existing tags as much as possible to aboid duplicate and make it easily discoverable
* image : add an inspiring image which will be featured on the Daisi card, so it get noticed
* description : a short sentence describing your Daisi which will be featured in the Daisi card. It is not supposed
to replace the content of the `DAISI.md` file. Keep detailed descriptions for the **Readme** tab.
